# Tutorials

- # Mission Folders & And Git Environment 

__What is a mission folder?__

* A "Mission folder" is a folder that is generated by Eden Editor when a new project is created.

* This folder houses all of the code and assets for our missions plus some general parameters and data from the editor.

* There are two different types of mission folders, `mpmissions` and `missions`.

* We'll only be working with `mpmissions`, which stands for Multiplayer Missions.

* Mpmission folders are typically located at `C:\Users\YOUR_USERNAME\Documents\Arma 3 - Other Profiles\YOUR_ARMA_USER\mpmissions\`.

* Initially, there will only be a single file called `mission.sqm` located in the folder. 

* This is because we haven't added any scripts to or mission yet.

* Mission Folders are named strictly for functionality and can only be in the format as follows: `My Mission Name.MyMapName`.

### How to seamlessly import a Mpmission folder into Eden Editor from GitHub:

* Open up GitHub desktop

* [Clone the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/cloning-a-repository-from-github-to-github-desktop), when prompted, select the following location to intstall the files: `C:\Users\YOUR_USERNAME\Documents\Arma 3 - Other Profiles\YOUR_ARMA_USER\mpmissions\`.

Great, now ensure that you have the correct modlist running then open Arma and open the scenario, ensuring that it appears under the "Multiplayer" missions.

That's it!

## How does GitHub/GitHub desktop work?
It's really not too hard, but if you have any questions then feel free to reach out to me,
otherwise, [have a read](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/cloning-a-repository-from-github-to-github-desktop)!

## Where do the two meet? Why are we using this system?

* ["Git" framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) is the backbone of source control and coding-project management and GitHub.com is our choice provider of Git cloud services. 
By utilizing GitHub Desktop, we can all make changes to the same project while simultaneously merging our changes together on the "Main Branch", with the click of a button.
* We'll get into "Branches" soon enough but for now just remember that the central code on Github that is pipelined to the server will be referred to as the "Main Branch".  
* When you make changes to the code on your PC, you can optionally and selectively update these changes to GitHub.
* You will also be warned if your changes conflict with someone else's work before both of you have uploaded.

## Visual Studio Code - See Recorded Meeting (coming soon! - Meeting TBA)
* TBA

## Editing a mission & pushing Commits

> Now that we've gotten familiar with VSC, we can make some edits, but first... back to GitHub desktop!

## *Branches (GitHub)*
* A "Branch" is a parallel repository that is based on the main branch but contains changes that differ.
* You will need to create a new branch in GitHub desktop before committing new code to the Organization. Name it something unique/descriptive!

## *Commits (GitHub)*
* A "Commit" is essentially the act/instance of new code being added to a branch of a repository.
* Commits can be tracked, audited and ultimately reversed if need be.
* Note: Whether you're a seasoned developer or a total newbie, making your first commit to a new organization or team or especially your first commit in general, can be very nerveracking but just know, we are able to completely reverse any mistakes we make along the way and they will happen, things will break..you will break them..it's all part of the learning process!

## *Pull-Requests (GitHub)*
* A "Pull-Request" is the act/instance of asking a teamleader to merge your branch with the main branch.
* This action is also tracked and can be denied/approved/deleted.

i) Editing & creating a new branch
* Let's say you need to edit a file in Laguna, located at `Laguna.UMB_Colombia/config/settings.sqf`.
* Clone Laguna to your Mpmissions.
* Go into VSC and opening the folder, `Laguna.UMB_Colombia`.
* You should see all changed files showing green in the source control panel (left-hand side, opened with the triangle icon).
* Make your edits to the file then open up Github Desktop.
* Navigate to the top-middle bar that says "Main Branch", click it and select "New Branch".
* Name your branch somethig short and unique then select "Publish Branch".
* Now your branch is live!
* Now in the middle of GitHub Desktop, you should see the option to create a pull-request, click it.
* Publish the pull-request then get ahold of a teamleader for a code-review.
* That's it!

ii) Committing to your new branch
> This is easy.. if you have already published a new branch and would like to add more code to it, simply open Github Desktop and push the commit!

